workflows/prognostic_c48_run/README.md, before:

Prognostic model run workflow
=============================

This workflow makes a coupled C48 FV3 run with a scikit-learn model. This workflow
1. includes runfile `sklearn_runfile.py` which can be used with `fv3run`
1. uses the `prognostic_run` docker image, built by `fv3net/docker/prognostic_run/Dockerfile`

(Authenticating) with google cloud
--------------------------------

This workflow needs to access google cloud storage within docker. To do this,
it expects that the environmental variable GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS
will point to a valid service account key on the host system. For example,

    export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=<path/to/key.json>

Quickstart
----------

An example prognostic run can be started with

	make sklearn_run

Configure the scikit-learn run
------------------------------------------

The scikit-learn model and location for zarr output can be configured using `fv3config.yml`. To do this, simply add/modify the `scikit_learn` entry of the yaml file as follows:
```
scikit_learn:
  model: gs://vcm-ml-data/test-annak/ml-pipeline-output/2020-01-17_rf_40d_run.pkl
  zarr_output: diags.zarr
```

If some variables names used for input variables in the scikit-learn model are inconsistent with the variable names used by the python wrapper, this can be handled by the optional `input_variable_standard_names` entry in the `scikit_learn` entry of the config yaml:
```
scikit_learn:
  input_variable_standard_names:
    DSWRFtoa_train: total_sky_downward_shortwave_flux_at_top_of_atmosphere
```

Prognostic Run in End-to-End Workflow
-------------------------------------

The prognostic run is included in the end-to-end workflow orchestration by `orchestrate_submit_job.py`.  This script takes command-line arguments:

```
usage: orchestrate_submit_job.py [-h]
                                 model_url initial_condition_url output_url
                                 prog_config_yml ic_timestep docker_image

positional arguments:
  model_url             Remote url to a trained sklearn model.
  initial_condition_url
                        Remote url to directory holding timesteps with model
                        initial conditions.
  output_url            Remote storage location for prognostic run output.
  prog_config_yml       Path to a config update YAML file specifying the
                        changes (e.g., diag_table, runtime, ...) from the one-
                        step runs for the prognostic run.
  ic_timestep           Time step to grab from the initial conditions url.
  docker_image          Docker image to pull for the prognostic run kubernetes
                        pod.
```

The prognostic run will grab the fv3config.yml file residing at the `initial_condition_url` and update it with any values specified in `prog_config_yml`, which can also include a `kubernetes`-key section to pass pod resource requests to `fv3run` (example shown below).  The prognostic-run ML configuration section "scikit_learn" is added (or updated if it already exists) to use the ML model specified as a command-line argument to `orchestrate_submit_job.py`.

### `prog_config_yml` example

```yaml
kubernetes:
  cpu_count: 6
  memory_gb: 3.6
diag_table: workflows/prognostic_c48_run/diag_table_prognostic
namelist:
  coupler_nml:
    hours: 0
    minutes: 60
    seconds: 0
```

Commit message:

Allow piggy-backed prognostic runs (i.e. diagnostic-only ML) (#367)
Adds a command-line argument to the prognostic run's submission script to do "diagnostic_ml" i.e. compute the ML predictions but not apply them to the model state.

The baseline run in the end-to-end workflow is updated to use this option instead of not passing an ML model. This ensures that the baseline run outputs will have the same format as the prognostic run outputs. It will also provide useful diagnostic information. The option to not pass an ML model url (and thus use the default runfile) is maintained.

For piggy-backed runs, the diagnostic predictions of <dQ1> and <dQ2> are output under the names "net_heating_diagnostic" and "net_moistening_diagnostic". Piggy-backed runs still output variables called "net_heating" and "net_moistening" but they are zero-valued.

workflows/prognostic_c48_run/README.md, after:

Prognostic model run workflow
=============================

This workflow makes a coupled C48 FV3 run with a scikit-learn model. This workflow
1. includes runfile `sklearn_runfile.py` which can be used with `fv3run`
1. uses the `prognostic_run` docker image, built by `fv3net/docker/prognostic_run/Dockerfile`

(Authenticating) with google cloud
--------------------------------

This workflow needs to access google cloud storage within docker. To do this,
it expects that the environmental variable GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS
will point to a valid service account key on the host system. For example,

    export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=<path/to/key.json>

Quickstart
----------

An example prognostic run can be started with

	make sklearn_run

Configure the scikit-learn run
------------------------------------------

The scikit-learn model and location for zarr output can be configured using `fv3config.yml`. To do this, simply add/modify the `scikit_learn` entry of the yaml file as follows:
```
scikit_learn:
  model: gs://vcm-ml-data/test-annak/ml-pipeline-output/2020-01-17_rf_40d_run.pkl
  zarr_output: diags.zarr
```

If some variables names used for input variables in the scikit-learn model are inconsistent with the variable names used by the python wrapper, this can be handled by the optional `input_variable_standard_names` entry in the `scikit_learn` entry of the config yaml:
```
scikit_learn:
  input_variable_standard_names:
    DSWRFtoa_train: total_sky_downward_shortwave_flux_at_top_of_atmosphere
```

Prognostic Run in End-to-End Workflow
-------------------------------------

The prognostic run is included in the end-to-end workflow orchestration by `orchestrate_submit_job.py`.  This script takes command-line arguments:

```
usage: orchestrate_submit_job.py [-h] [--model_url MODEL_URL]
                                 [--prog_config_yml PROG_CONFIG_YML]
                                 [--diagnostic_ml] [-d]
                                 initial_condition_url ic_timestep
                                 docker_image output_url

positional arguments:
  initial_condition_url
                        Remote url to directory holding timesteps with model
                        initial conditions.
  ic_timestep           Time step to grab from the initial conditions url.
  docker_image          Docker image to pull for the prognostic run kubernetes
                        pod.
  output_url            Remote storage location for prognostic run output.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --model_url MODEL_URL
                        Remote url to a trained sklearn model.
  --prog_config_yml PROG_CONFIG_YML
                        Path to a config update YAML file specifying the
                        changes from the basefv3config (e.g. diag_table,
                        runtime, ...) for the prognostic run.
  --diagnostic_ml       Compute and save ML predictions but do not apply them
                        to model state.
  -d, --detach          Do not wait for the k8s job to complete.
```

The prognostic run will grab the fv3config.yml file residing at the `initial_condition_url` and update it with any values specified in `prog_config_yml`, which can also include a `kubernetes`-key section to pass pod resource requests to `fv3run` (example shown below).  The prognostic-run ML configuration section "scikit_learn" is added (or updated if it already exists) to use the ML model specified as a command-line argument to `orchestrate_submit_job.py`.

### `prog_config_yml` example

```yaml
kubernetes:
  cpu_count: 6
  memory_gb: 3.6
diag_table: workflows/prognostic_c48_run/diag_table_prognostic
namelist:
  coupler_nml:
    hours: 0
    minutes: 60
    seconds: 0
```
