workflows/coarsen_restarts/README.md, before:

Restart timestep coarsening
===========================

This workflow provides a reusuable Dataflow module to coarsen a set of restart
timesteps in a directory on cloud storage.  The workflow performs the coarsening
using pressure-level coarsening defined in `vcm.coarsen`.

```python
fv3net.pipelines.coarsen_restarts

usage: __main__.py [-h] --gcs-src-dir GCS_SRC_DIR [--gcs-dst-dir GCS_DST_DIR]
                   --gcs-grid-spec-path GCS_GRID_SPEC_PATH --source-resolution
                   SOURCE_RESOLUTION --target_resolution TARGET_RESOLUTION

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --gcs-src-dir GCS_SRC_DIR
                        Full GCS path to input data for downloading timesteps.
  --gcs-dst-dir GCS_DST_DIR
                        Full GCS path to output coarsened timestep data.
                        Defaults to input pathwith target resolution appended
                        as a directory
  --gcs-grid-spec-path GCS_GRID_SPEC_PATH
                        Full path with file wildcard 'grid_spec.tile*.nc' to
                        select grid spec files with same resolution as the
                        source data
  --source-resolution SOURCE_RESOLUTION
                        Source data cubed-sphere grid resolution.
  --target_resolution TARGET_RESOLUTION
                        Target coarsening resolution to output
```

See `workflows/coarsen_restarts/submit_job.sh` to see an example of calling this
module for submission of a dataflow job.
dataflow.  **Note**: The pressure level coarsening takes quite a bit of memory
for the C384 coarsening.  Make sure the machine type has enough memory.  If you
see the job failing without any useful errors, it's probably memory related.

Commit message:

Update coarsen_restarts README to clarify that submit_job.sh is an example

workflows/coarsen_restarts/README.md, after:

Restart timestep coarsening
===========================

This workflow provides a reusuable Dataflow module to coarsen a set of restart
timesteps in a directory on cloud storage.  The workflow performs the coarsening
using pressure-level coarsening defined in `vcm.coarsen`.

```python
fv3net.pipelines.coarsen_restarts

usage: __main__.py [-h] --gcs-src-dir GCS_SRC_DIR [--gcs-dst-dir GCS_DST_DIR]
                   --gcs-grid-spec-path GCS_GRID_SPEC_PATH --source-resolution
                   SOURCE_RESOLUTION --target_resolution TARGET_RESOLUTION

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --gcs-src-dir GCS_SRC_DIR
                        Full GCS path to input data for downloading timesteps.
  --gcs-dst-dir GCS_DST_DIR
                        Full GCS path to output coarsened timestep data.
                        Defaults to input pathwith target resolution appended
                        as a directory
  --gcs-grid-spec-path GCS_GRID_SPEC_PATH
                        Full path with file wildcard 'grid_spec.tile*.nc' to
                        select grid spec files with same resolution as the
                        source data
  --source-resolution SOURCE_RESOLUTION
                        Source data cubed-sphere grid resolution.
  --target_resolution TARGET_RESOLUTION
                        Target coarsening resolution to output
```

See `workflows/coarsen_restarts/submit_job.sh` to see an example of calling this
module for submission of a dataflow job.  Any coarsening job scripts we'd like to document
should go into the `workflows/coarsen_restarts` directory.
**Note**: The pressure level coarsening takes quite a bit of memory
for the C384 coarsening.  Make sure the machine type has enough memory.  If you
see the job failing without any useful errors, it's probably memory related.
