workflows/prognostic_run_diags/README.md, before:

## Prognostic run reports

### Metrics

| metric |  description| |
|-|-|-|
|rmse_3day/{variable} | average RMSE. (average of 3 hourly RMSE)| z500 |
|drift3day/{variable} |  Day 3 average - Day 1 average | tmplowest |

### Usage

This folder contains a workflow for saving prognostic run metrics to netCDF
files and then uploading [this report][1] to a public bucket. 

This workflow depends on an up-to-date fv3net image. It also requires that argo be installed and the kubectl tool is properly configured.

To generate reports for all the directories in `rundirs.json` to the cluster,
simply run

    bash run_all.sh rundirs.json

This command will make output like this:

    Name:                prognostic-run-diags-sps8h
    Namespace:           default
    ServiceAccount:      default
    Status:              Pending
    Created:             Thu Apr 30 12:01:17 -0700 (now)

The data are stored at a directory based on the "Name" above. Specifically, the computed outputs wil be located at `gs://vcm-ml-scratch/argo/{{workflow.name}}`. The published report will be available at the url:

    http://storage.googleapis.com/vcm-ml-public/argo/{{workflow.name}}/index.html

This job can be monitored by running

    argo watch <name of pod in last command>

### Dependencies

- md5sum. Usually available on linux. To install on mac run: `brew install md5sha1sum`.
- argo CLI
- yq

### Generating a new report

Simply add a new item to rundirs.yml and resubmit the job. All the steps will be
re-run, which is redundant, but the process isn't that slow.


[1]: http://storage.googleapis.com/vcm-ml-public/experiments-2020-03/prognostic_run_diags/combined.html

## Adding/plotting a new diagnostic/metric

This system is designed for extension without extensively modifying the
source code. To accomplish this, it divides report generation into three
phases

1. diagnostic computation using `save_prognostic_run_diags.py`. A "diagnostic" is a multidimensional quantity 
   that is reasonably limited in size (e.g. can be easily downloaded).
1. Scalar "metrics" are computed from the output of the step above using `metrics.py`
1. Multiple sets of diagnostics/metrics are visualized in the static html report 
   generation script `generate_report.py`

### Adding a diagnostic

A new diagnostics can be easily added by writing a new function in
`save_prognostic_run_diags.py` and decorating it with `add_to_diags`, see the
docs of that decorator for more details.

### Adding a new metric

Similarly, a new metric can be added using the `metric` decorator in `metrics.py`. See that script for some examples.

### Adding a new visualization

The steps above simply add a metric or diagnostic to the saved output, but do
not change the report.

To plot a new metric or diagnostic, add a function to `generate_report.py`
and decorate it with the `metrics_plot_manager.register` if its metric or
`diag_plot_manager.register` if its a diagnostic. This function needs to
return an object that is valid input to the `sections` argument of
report.create_report`, currently just a path to an image, or an object of
type `report.Plot`.

Commit message:

Add physics and ML vars to prognostic run report (#392)
Adds physics and ML outputs to prognostic run report, and makes various other small fixes. In particular:

Finish refactor started by @andrep: move the original load_data_3H function from save_prognostic_run_diags.py to load_diagnostic_data.py and rename it load_dycore

Add load_physics function which opens and merges sfc_dt_atmos and diags.zarr

Add global mean averages of the quantities opened by load_physics. I put these in a separate plot ("global_phys_avg") since there was a pretty overwhelming number of variables in the "global_avg" plot otherwise. Could put them together though.

Change _rename_coords to _rename_dims because some inputs (in particular, diags.zarr) have no coordinates, and so this function was not renaming rank to tile as it should have been. Added a test to include coverage for Datasets with and without coordinates.

Open the Zarr versions of atmos_dt_atmos and sfc_dt_atmos prognostic run outputs, and thus require the report be run on post-processed run directories. (Could modify to allow netCDF inputs, but would make code more complicated).

Add derived variables functionality. A derived variable is a simple arithmetic combination of input variables. A function can be defined for each input data type (so far, "dycore" and "physics") which will add derived variables for the prognostic and verification data for that input type.

Compute dQs, pQs and Qs.

Have diags.nc and metric.json get saved in vcm-ml-public instead of vcm-ml-scratch, since scratch now has a regular deletion policy

Move legends outside of plot area (!)

Fix some type-hints and docstrings in save_prognostic_run_diags.py and generate_report.py

workflows/prognostic_run_diags/README.md, after:

## Prognostic run reports

### Metrics

| metric |  description| |
|-|-|-|
|rmse_3day/{variable} | average RMSE. (average of 3 hourly RMSE)| z500 |
|drift3day/{variable} |  Day 3 average - Day 1 average | tmplowest |

### Usage

This folder contains a workflow for saving prognostic run metrics to netCDF
files and then uploading [this report][1] to a public bucket. 

This workflow depends on an up-to-date fv3net image. It also requires that argo be installed and the kubectl tool is properly configured.

To generate reports for all the directories in `rundirs.json` to the cluster,
simply run

    bash run_all.sh rundirs.json

This command will make output like this:

    Name:                prognostic-run-diags-sps8h
    Namespace:           default
    ServiceAccount:      default
    Status:              Pending
    Created:             Thu Apr 30 12:01:17 -0700 (now)

The data are stored at a directory based on the "Name" above. Specifically, the computed outputs wil be located at `gs://vcm-ml-scratch/argo/{{workflow.name}}`. The published report will be available at the url:

    http://storage.googleapis.com/vcm-ml-public/argo/{{workflow.name}}/index.html

This job can be monitored by running

    argo watch <name of pod in last command>

### Dependencies

- md5sum. Usually available on linux. To install on mac run: `brew install md5sha1sum`.
- argo CLI
- yq

### Generating a new report

Simply add a new item to rundirs.yml and resubmit the job. All the steps will be
re-run, which is redundant, but the process isn't that slow. The workflow requires
that provided prognostic runs have been post-processed so that their outputs are
available in zarr format. See `fv3net/workflows/prognostic_c48_run/post_process.py`.


[1]: http://storage.googleapis.com/vcm-ml-public/experiments-2020-03/prognostic_run_diags/combined.html

## Adding/plotting a new diagnostic/metric

This system is designed for extension without extensively modifying the
source code. To accomplish this, it divides report generation into three
phases

1. diagnostic computation using `save_prognostic_run_diags.py`. A "diagnostic" is a multidimensional quantity 
   that is reasonably limited in size (e.g. can be easily downloaded).
1. Scalar "metrics" are computed from the output of the step above using `metrics.py`
1. Multiple sets of diagnostics/metrics are visualized in the static html report 
   generation script `generate_report.py`

### Adding a diagnostic

A new diagnostics can be easily added by writing a new function in
`save_prognostic_run_diags.py` and decorating it with `add_to_diags`, see the
docs of that decorator for more details.

### Adding a new metric

Similarly, a new metric can be added using the `metric` decorator in `metrics.py`. See that script for some examples.

### Adding a new visualization

The steps above simply add a metric or diagnostic to the saved output, but do
not change the report.

To plot a new metric or diagnostic, add a function to `generate_report.py`
and decorate it with the `metrics_plot_manager.register` if its metric or
`diag_plot_manager.register` if its a diagnostic. This function needs to
return an object that is valid input to the `sections` argument of
report.create_report`, currently just a path to an image, or an object of
type `report.Plot`.
