workflows/single_fv3gfs_run/README.md, before:

```
usage: submit_job.py [-h] --bucket BUCKET --run-yaml RUN_YAML

optional arguments:
  -h, --help           show this help message and exit
  --bucket BUCKET      Remote url where config and output will be saved.
                       Specifically, configuration will be saved to
                       BUCKET/config and output to BUCKET/output
  --run-yaml RUN_YAML  Path to local run configuration yaml.
```
This workflow provides a re-usable job submission script for doing long one-off free
or nudged simulations with the FV3GFS model. Example run configurations for 1-year long
simulations are `long_free.yml` and `long_nudged.yml` for free-running and nudged respectively.
Run configuration include both information about the job (# processors, memory, runfile) as well as a
standard fv3config model configuration dictionary. Only non-default parameters need to be
specified. Feel free to add more run configurations to this folder if you develop some.

A custom `runfile` can be specified in the `kubernetes` section of the run_yaml. The provided
examples do not specify the `runfile`, and hence use the default.

Note that all configuration assets except the `diag_table` and `runfile` are assumed to already
be on GCS. This includes any initial conditions or patch file assets.

Commit message:

Update READMEs with default config version information

workflows/single_fv3gfs_run/README.md, after:

```
usage: submit_job.py [-h] --bucket BUCKET --run-yaml RUN_YAML

optional arguments:
  -h, --help           show this help message and exit
  --bucket BUCKET      Remote url where config and output will be saved.
                       Specifically, configuration will be saved to
                       BUCKET/config and output to BUCKET/output
  --run-yaml RUN_YAML  Path to local run configuration yaml.
  --config-version CONFIG_VERSION
                        Default fv3config.yml version to use as the base
                        configuration. This should be consistent with the
                        fv3gfs-python version in the specified docker image.
                        Defaults to fv3gfs-python v0.2 style configuration.
```
This workflow provides a re-usable job submission script for doing long one-off free
or nudged simulations with the FV3GFS model. Example run configurations for 1-year long
simulations are `long_free.yml` and `long_nudged.yml` for free-running and nudged respectively.
Run configuration include both information about the job (# processors, memory, runfile) as well as a
standard fv3config model configuration dictionary. Only non-default parameters need to be
specified. Feel free to add more run configurations to this folder if you develop some.

A custom `runfile` can be specified in the `kubernetes` section of the run_yaml. The provided
examples do not specify the `runfile`, and hence use the default.

Note that all configuration assets except the `diag_table` and `runfile` are assumed to already
be on GCS. This includes any initial conditions or patch file assets.
