workflows/nudging/README.md, before:

Nudging workflow
================

This workflow performs a nudged run, nudging to reference data stored on GCS.

Quickstart
----------

Pull the docker image from GCS:

    docker pull us.gcr.io/vcm-ml/fv3gfs-python:0.3.1-nudging

Run the workflow:

    make run

The output directory should now be present in `output`.

Building the image
------------------

Build requires an `fv3gfs-python` base image. If you don't have one with the
correct version tag, it will be automatically pulled by `make build`. It then produces an image
tagged with `-nudging` which contains the cached data needed to create the nudging rundir,
and any additional python packages needed.

Building the `-nudging` image requires `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` to be set.
These credentials are copied into an intermediate image to download the data cache.
The credentials are not included in the final `-nudging` image.

More details
------------

The nudging and run are configured in `fv3config_base.yml`. This gets converted into
`fv3config.yml` automatically in order to specify the full filenames for initial
conditions on GCS that has been prepended with the timestamp.

`retry.sh` performs a rebuild of the `fv3gfs-python` base image, a rebuild of the
nudging image, and then repeats the workflow, showing the error log if an error
occurs. It requires an environment variable `FV3GFS_PYTHON_DIR` which points to
the directory where the `fv3gfs-python` repo is stored. It assumes that the repo is
checked out to the correct version of `fv3gfs-python`.

If you want to run the workflow on a different image, for example on the image
without cached data, you can use `NUDGING_IMG=<image name> make run`

Commit message:

remove artifacts from old workflow, pin fv3config requirement

workflows/nudging/README.md, after:

Nudging workflow
================

This workflow performs a nudged run, nudging to reference data stored on GCS.

Quickstart
----------

Pull the docker image from GCS, if you don't have it already:

    docker pull us.gcr.io/vcm-ml/fv3gfs-python:0.4.1

Run the workflow:

    make run

The output directory should now be present in `output`.


Running on Kubernetes
---------------------

The workflow can be submitted to kubernetes using:

    make run_kubernetes

You should probably specify the remote output directory to use, as follows:

    REMOTE_ROOT=gs://my-bucket/ make run_kubernetes


Configuration
-------------

The reference restart location and variables to nudge are stored in `fv3config_base.yml`.
The nudging timescales in that file are ignored, and instead replaced with the
TIMESCALE_HOURS variable set in the makefile (which you can pass manually).

More details
------------

The nudging and run are configured in `fv3config_base.yml`. This gets converted into
`fv3config.yml` automatically in order to specify the full filenames for initial
conditions on GCS that has been prepended with the timestamp.

If you want to run the workflow on a different image, you can set `IMG_NAME` and `IMG_VERSION` when you call `make`.
